0. There are two methods for building a heap from an unsorted array:
   (1) insert each element into the heap  --- O(nlogn)
   (2) heapify (top-down)
    (a) Derive these time complexities.
        For each n element, it takes complexity O(logn) to insert it at the right node.

        1.Therefore nO(logn) = O(nlogn)
        2. I had to watch a view that explained it but basically
          the summation of n/2^h from h = 1 to h = logn can be reduced to n. So O(n).
    (b) Show the time difference
    (c) What about sorted or reverse sorted

 1. Given two lists A and B, each with n integers, return
  a sorted list C that contains the smallest n elements from AxB:
  Q: What are the time complexities of these algorithms?
  a) O(n^2 * nlogn * n)
  b) O(n^2 * n *n)
  c) O(nk Logk)

2. k-way mergesort
  Q: What is the complexity? Write down the detailed analysis in report.txt.

  O(nlogn).
  Mergesort is a divide and conquer algorithm. K way mergesort is the same.
  For k way merge sort I believe that the divison would be log base k not log base 2.
  And for combining I believe that it would still be O(n).

  At worst case scenario where k is 2 (log 2 is larger than log 2+) it would be O(nlogn).
  So that would be (Onlog2k < Onlogkn) so O(nlogn)

3. Find the k smallest numbers in a data stream of length n (k<<n),
  using only O(k) space (the stream itself might be too big to fit in memory).
  Q: What is your complexity? Write down the detailed analysis in report.txt.

     Well first you have the complexity of the first k elements using heapify.

     That's O(k). Then you have to insert the remaining elements.
     Since insert for binary heap is O(logn) and there are k elements you would substitute
     so that it would be O(logk) * (n-k) which would simplify to O(nlogk).



Debriefing (required!): --------------------------
0. What's your name?
  Thuy-Vy Nguyen
1. Approximately how many hours did you spend on this assignment?
  The graded question took me twenty minutes. The rest of the assignment took longer, especially the report.
2. Would you rate it as easy, moderate, or difficult?
  Moderate
3. Did you work on it mostly alone, or mostly with other people?
  Note you are encouraged to discuss with your classmates,
  but each students should submit his/her own code.
  Usually I do it with friends but I did this one alone.
4. How deeply do you feel you understand the material it covers (0%-100%)?
  80%
5. Which part(s) of the course you like the most so far?
  This assignment was pretty fun, I thought it would be harder than it was.
6. Which part(s) of the course you dislike the most so far?
  Participation on slack. I just really hate it.
  I'm really hoping the grading changes because if not
  I'm going to do very badly in this class even though
  I think I am understanding the material.
